hello Ben thank you for having me - my
pleasure
this is a subject that scares the shit
out of me you and how did you stumble
upon the story of fentanyl because
weren't you at one point time didn't you
write about like rap music yeah I have a
book about NWA and Tupac and I
interviewed like Ice Cube dr. Dre Snoop
Dogg all those people yeah but I was the
LA Weekly music editor and I started
looking into this story about why people
were always dying at raves so like I
don't know if you remember a few years
back every time there was a rave there
like one person died new people died
anymore
and they always said it was from ecstasy
but I knew that ecstasy was really not
that dangerous of a drug you know MDMA
pure MDMA very few people died from that
so I was like what is going on here
and I looked into it and turned out it
was all adulterated it wasn't real
ecstasy wasn't real Molly
it was adulterated with all these new
drugs and I kind of went down the rabbit
hole and I found out that all these new
drugs were made in China they're all
synthetic and there were like hundreds
of them and then it turns out that the
most you know the worst of them was
fentanyl and that's how I got under the
topic and in fence you know most people
think of fentanyl they think of it as
being a new thing but it's not really a
new thing right was wasn't it it was
invented in the 50s yeah yeah I was
invented by a Belgian chemist he was
trying to find something that worked
better than morphine in hospitals
it doesn't morphine work really good
well it does but for things like yeah
traditionally people have got a lot of
mileage out of morphine but for things
like open-heart surgery he wants
something that came on really fast and
it lasted a long time and so he
manipulated the chemical structure of
morphine came up with fentanyl it was a
blockbuster drug you know and still is
used in hospitals all the time it's used
you know there's the fentanyl patch for
people with cancer
Payne and then when you get a like a
colonoscopy they give you fentanyl
before that and then women who have
epidural is doing childbirth that I
believe he's usually fentanyl so it's
still an important hospital drug and so
how did it come to be that this drug
from the 1950s sort of reimburses and
reemerged during the rave scene is that
what it was it was actually before that
it first started killing people a little
bit at the beginning of the 80s and
nobody knew what it was it was from
China then as well no back then it was
these kind of mystery chemists these
guys who there was this one guy in
particular called George Marquardt and
he was like a genius maniac who read all
the chemical literature he learned about
Fenton Fenton Ellie's like I should try
to make this I bet it would be a hit
with recreational users and so he
started making it and it stumped
authorities because these people would
die they would have track marks in their
arms like it was heroin they would have
syringes but they tested them afterwards
and there's no heroin in their system
and so they're like what is this and the
only way they finally found out was that
there was this scientist testing racing
horses and apparently fentanyl was being
used to dope horses to like so they
would withstand more pain and would go
longer and faster and completely train
harder yeah and so so this guy made the
connection he's like oh this is fentanyl
this is this new thing and he actually
predicted what was going to happen he's
like we are in trouble now because not
only is there fentanyl you can make a
new if you ban fentanyl you can adjust
the molecule make another type of fence
know when they ban that can make another
one ad infinitum basically Wow so the
thing with horses would be that they
would be in pain so they wouldn't run as
hard so they would force them to run
harder by dulling the pain I guess so
yeah I don't know all the details of it
but you know it's performance enhancing
basis and it seemed kind of
counterintuitive you would think that
like an opiate would like make the
sleepy right well I don't know maybe
just has a different effect on horses so
then the Internet comes along and
through the internet
people started scouring the medical
literature and scientific literature and
chemical literature and then they find
fentanyl exactly yeah because back in
the old days you you know scientists
would publish a paper they're trying to
find a new drug that they can patent say
the drug isn't a hit no one wants to buy
it it goes on some dusty university
shelf never is heard from again
but in the Internet age all of these
papers start going online and so these
rogue chemists that I reference until my
book they start finding particular
scientists who work on the type of drugs
they're interested in and then they
start going through all their papers and
they pick out drugs that they think
would work recreationally and so when
fentanyl first came out it was totally
legal people you could walk around with
a giant bag of it they couldn't do
anything and so it set in motion this
sort of cat-and-mouse game between law
enforcement and drug chemists which
really still persists to this day
although mostly in China now have you
ever experienced any opiates personally
I've taken
yeah like tramadol in like Tylenol three
and stuff like that I don't know three
years opiates
I think it's codeine which is a
low-level opioid and I don't know to me
it always gets me stoned but it never
seems to like deal with the problem I
don't really like Opie I just you know
what I mean it's like I can't sleep and
it's just not like that's not your thing
yeah I had the old nyquil had codeine
didn't it didn't it did we've been over
this haven't we didn't we try to figure
this out I I remember I took nyquil in
the 90s in the late 90s I was sick like
the last time I ever took it and it was
wonderful I was lying I had going this
is amazing I only give a shit oh fuck
yeah I heard I'm sick a lot of people
say that I just sank into the bed I was
like
and another time I had a morphine drip
at knee surgery and they gave me a
little morphine drip and he's an every
time I want it I could just hit this
button uh-huh and get a little more
hammering that just lying in bed well
that's like the irony of the opioids it
can produce the greatest pleasure you
know and the greatest pain you know I
think Sam quinones said that like how
can one molecule give you the greatest
pleasure imaginable and the worst pain
imaginable yeah Lenny Bruce had some
crazy quote about it something about
that of like getting hugged by God I
forget what the quote was but i-i've
never had experience with heroin but I
knew I've known people that were addicts
quite a few and a couple of them that
died and one of them that I knew there
was this guy he was a pool hustler back
of my pool playing days in New York and
his nickname was water dog I forget his
real name I think was Bill but another
was Buffalo Bills his other nickname I
don't remember his real name but anyway
this guy was an elite pool player
big-time gambler but the thing was he
had to do heroin first so like they
would play games for like $10,000 these
huge games and all these guys would come
from the tri-state area they would come
around to watch these matches in bed on
the side and water dog would go to the
bathroom and everybody knew what was
going on he would go and shoot up and
they would come and he would sit on a
chair like this just sit there for like
half an hour just sit there and then
when it was over when the half hour was
over he just like he couldn't miss and
he was playing this guy this this dude
that I knew named George who was also a
big-time gambler and he was screaming
and yelling that this motherfucker when
he's on this stuff he can't miss he had
no nerves like nothing bothered him you
could scream in his face he would look
at you like an alien like it didn't
didn't bother him at all like like an
insect would look at you and he had this
incredible ability to play like at the
very best
while he was fucked up on heroin and I
remember thinking what a bizarre drug I
mean think about all the amazing artists
that it's clean yeah I think about jazz
and John the cream yeah Lenny Bruce so
many people I mean you go down the line
all these different folks I mean that
mug shot that I have out there of
Hendrix yes
heroin Toronto yeah I mean people like
people prefer heroin defense until like
I've heard it described as more soulful
people say but the thing is you can't
even get heroin in most parts of America
like pure heroin anymore it's all cut
with fentanyl well you gotta go straight
to Afghanistan right that's probably
probably Mexico yeah yeah Jesus Christ
no the can you grow poppies what can
that be grown in the yeah I just walk
around on this true like nice
neighborhoods you'll see poppies all the
time you just don't even know you're
looking at him and that's actually
heroin like you could get one from those
poppies yeah it's like if they grow now
you know organically and you're not
doing it on purpose it's no big deal but
if you start cultivating it that's when
it becomes just got a place to know
they're beautiful look how pretty
yeah you also have San Pedro cactus on
your lawn sir oh those are pretty too
right yeah yeah I mean those cactus I
can't imagine there are a lot of trained
police who know what to look for is I
feel like if you're gonna grow some
mezcal you know mescaline cacti or
whatever your that's the move just mix
it up with regular cactus pretend your
cactus enthusiast yeah have it all over
your lawn some succulents
yeah I'm just really in a cactus man
they're pretty yeah it's a water I'm I
go out of town a lot yeah
so when you know what what scares me is
you know I mean I just know people that
party I know people that take pills and
it seems like fentanyl is things are
getting cut with fentanyl a lot it's not
you know it's not an uncommon thing for
all sorts of different drugs look how
many different drugs are cut with
fentanyl
street drug oh man it is like an awful
time to be a young person on the party
scene you know like when I was coming up
and probably when you were coming up
they said the DARE program and all that
say no just say no they made it sound
like every drug could kill you right now
unfortunately that's like almost reality
that basically any pill or any powder if
you didn't get your pill from CVS you
know your pain pill or from a pharmacy
that's legit it could be cut with
fentanyl and that's how prince died
that's how Tom Petty and the rapper Mac
Miller all died is that they were taught
they were taking legitimate pain pills
is that really what happened
that is really what happened it's got
his from the black market yeah well the
guy who supplied Prince has been he
refuses to really say exactly where he
got it but he's still alive
the guy who got in for Prince yeah where
is he
I don't know I think in Minneapolis or
so they should find that fucking guy
well the doctor is also like settled it
or something I think the doctor might
have been involved somehow
it's a mystery where he got these pills
but you know Prince was like doing the
splits on stage at age you know 58 or
whatever and he was definitely a guy who
walked around with a lot of pain he was
Jehovah's Witness he was not a
recreational drug user as we think about
it you know he was he wanted pain and
I'm sure for years his handler or
whatever was buying him off the darknet
or whatever and they were fine for years
but but then a drug dealer trying to
save some money increase profits cut it
with fentanyl and that's that's how he
died and I heard Tom Petty actually
suffered an injury or hurt himself at
one of his concerts and he just
literally walked outside and asked like
the first sketchy guy he saw if he had
any pain pills and that's what killed
him Jesus Christ Oh God and in Prince
needed hip replacement surgery didn't he
I think that's right No
so common for some reason with people
who perform on stage who do a lot of
like jumping around and going crazy my
friend Maynard lead singer of tulle yeah
he was he does jiu-jitsu he's really
into jiu-jitsu and he's like man I just
have no movement in my hip my hip is
like so locked up and the doctor went to
look at it and they're like hey bro
you've got no hip left like it's just
shot and it was from stompin on stage he
sings he fucking style time in that one
hip he just wore that hip out yeah my
mom has these issues with her neck it's
like degenerative disc disease and you
know you've got this like cushy spongy
you know well they can do something
about that now can ya before your mom
goes and gets her neck cut open there's
several options one first of all as it's
been explained to me the concept of
degenerative disc disease it gives you
this it implies that there's a disease
yeah like you caught a flu that's not
you know it's not what it is is bad
posture wearing down compression you
carrying weight if people carry a lot of
things their discs get smushed over time
there's a lot of different factors a lot
of athletes get a lot of fighters get a
lot of wrestlers jiu-jitsu guys they all
get it I got it and as you wear it is my
neck okay and it was from getting my
neck yanked on you know cranked on and
and using it to like move people around
when you're doing jujitsu and grappling
but I found a thing called Regina Kane
and with Regina Kane is what Peyton
Manning used he actually went to Germany
to go do it but now you can do it here
in America
Kobe Bryant went and got it done as well
it's great for people with back issues
disk issues and with bulging discs in
particular it helps relax the area
around the discs it's is your own blood
and there's all there's a some sort of
strange procedure they do but they take
your own blood it's like a very advanced
form of platelet-rich plasma and there's
a place called lifespan medicine in
Santa Monica they did it for me
everything bad everything back yeah I
mean depending upon how far gone it is
you know some people it's already
bone-on-bone there's no disc you know
and you got to catch
before that happens yeah and another
thing they're doing is they're shooting
stem cells directly into the disks and
they're having some really good results
with that where the stem cells but a lot
of that they'll be doing that in other
countries because it's there they're a
lot looser with their regulations if
they have any regulation at all yeah
just fucking fill you up with stem cells
yeah and everything starts regenerating
yeah but but yeah and it's not just
these pills either it's like and like
you have daughters I know who are you
know maybe getting towards their teenage
years right mm yeah and like that's the
thing I worry the most yeah it is are
you kids too and just yeah because I
used to you know I wasn't discriminate I
didn't care right especially if you're
drinking if you're a young kid and
you're drinking yeah I make wise
decisions you don't even know what
you're doing if you're a young kid
you're 18 19 years old you have a three
four drinks in you you don't even know
what that experience is like you know
you don't have the wisdom and the
knowledge and the history to go okay
I've got three drinks I don't the fuck
I'm doing I should get out of here yeah
I definitely should be taking any pills
yeah I'm and so I'm already like trying
to think about how I'm going to talk to
my kids who are younger but like you
know I hate to say it it seems like
marijuana if you can smell the buds if
you can see them you know there have
been kind of some scare mongering on the
internet in certain police departments
saying that there's been marijuana cut
with fentanyl but if you got in Stokes
calm they started to bunk all that so I
think marijuana is if you can smell it
it smells like weed you're probably
pretty safe well there are a lot of
people that are growing marijuana that
are using pesticides and chemical there
that are dangerous and there was one
what was the company that got caught
recently Jamie they tested their stuff
cushy plant I believe yeah so they punch
it with the microphone
Oh cushy punch we had a guy named John
Norris on the podcast and he wrote a
book called hidden war and he started
off his career as a game warden
you know investigating people that
caught too much fish things on those
lines
and he thought hey what a great job this
would be I'm gonna get and get a job in
the great outdoors I love the outdoors
and you know get to do some good for the
wildlife well turns out along the way
they started stumbling upon these public
land Mexican cartel grow operations
where they would grow these marijuana
plants just giant plots of them and they
would use these extremely toxic
pesticides oh yeah and also they would
use poison to keep animals out and they
had vats of this shit laying around and
some of the marijuana was actually
infested with this shit oh yeah I did
yeah my friend Amanda Chicago Lewis is
this great journalist folks done focused
on marijuana and yeah she put the fear
of God in me about those pesticides and
carcinogens and the other thing is just
like these you know these different oils
that people are smoking some of them are
marketed as like all-natural but they
find synthetic cannabinoids in them and
basically you know synthetic
cannabinoids like k2 and spice are what
they're known as sometimes and those are
people call it synthetic marijuana but
the big difference is that THC is known
as like a partial agonist so it will
like these receptors it will it will
activate them to an extent you're
chilled it's relaxed but the
cannabinoids they also interact with the
cannabinoid receptors same as THC but
they're full agonist and so they make
you basically like go crazy and your
heart starts beating fast you start
people overdose and die on these these
cannabinoids and they these are all made
in China - I went into a lab in China
where they made these and they made
fentanyl analogs they let you in yeah I
mean it was it was a whole thing I like
wrote them on the internet I made a fake
email address and I said I'm a drug
dealer I'd like to visit your lab may I
do that when I come to China and they
said yeah what yeah that's like did you
have a fake drug dealer named I called
myself what did I call myself
I tried I had this like Skype avatar
picture where I looked like a bro like a
23 year old dude with like big hair like
kind of a STONER look and they just they
said yeah come by and so so I went to
Shanghai and I met this guy at the train
station and he owned his own lab and he
asked me if I was a journalist actually
like pretty straightaway he was like are
you journalists though and I was like
nah like no crazy question do I look
like journalists No
so he didn't know whether to trust me so
we went to his apartment it was like the
top floor of this fancy high-rise he's a
total family man he had like he lived
there with his wife and kid
brings a stranger to his home yeah yeah
meets a guy says he's a drug dealer piss
him up at the train station says hey
come to where my kids sleep yeah exactly
Wow and so then he showed me because
yeah there the website a lot of these
companies in China they make legitimate
chemicals and recreational chemicals and
they specialize in drugs that are legal
in China but banned in the West so
banned in the u.s. oh is illegal in
China well in the US we have this thing
called the federal analogue Act and so
that bans all these drugs even before
they're invented so anything that's
similar to marijuana structurally or in
effect anything that's similar to
opioids is just automatically banned
automatically scheduled but in China
they have to do it one by one by one by
one and so fentanyl itself was scheduled
in China was banned in China decades ago
but these chemists spent like this one I
met specialize in this window when
something is banned in the US but it's
still legal in China but it's become
popularized on the internet so there's
all these websites these web forums
where these like drug nerds basically
you're like you can't get fentanyl but
you can get this thing that's kind of
like fentanyl and the whole area the way
drug nerds yeah yeah that's what they
are and like Psychonauts I'm sure you've
heard of psych shorts right
they specialize
in these new usually psychedelics they
tend to prefer that have never been
tested on human subjects but this guy
was entirely specialized in fentanyl
analogues and synthetic cannabinoids and
so he took out you know he had his like
fake list on his website of all the
legitimate you know like cialis and you
know legitimate pharmaceuticals things
like that but as at his apartment he
showed me the real list and that had all
these you know it was cannabinoids
fentanyl it was like fake valium like
different types of xanax and he showed
me the prices and I was like all right
looks good can I can I go see your lab
and so finally he decided he trusted me
he called up his driver on the phone and
the driver showed up and he was kind of
this big like muscular dude who didn't
speak any English and I was a little
worried I was like oh this is the dude
he's gonna break my kneecaps if when he
finds out I'm a journalist you know but
I just got in the car and we drove like
30 minutes to the outskirts of Shanghai
and we got to the lab and it just looked
like a regular office park like a
suburban office park there was a
fountain in in front of the building
there was like you know you use the
keycard to get in the parking lot and
then it looked like kind of a new
construction building it smelled like
cement we went inside we went up to to
the labs all the windows were open
there's the middle of the winter and it
was kind of a strong chemical smell but
it looked kind of just like Breaking Bad
like you know like industrial sized
glassware
you know beakers Bunsen burners all that
stuff from high school chemistry and he
would points he points out like
basically I had my recorder you know on
my phone and I had it in my jacket
pocket just on record and so he told me
I couldn't take pictures and so to take
notes I would just say stuff aloud I'd
be like oh that's oranges a a light
orange mixture that's being mixed up I
make
alarm and you say it's benzo fentanyl a
very interesting and so but but the
language barrier was such that he you
know didn't think I was being too much
of a weirdo that clearly was but so but
the cannabinoids would it were crazy
there was like a table like this like
almost exactly this size that was piled
up with the cannabinoids that were there
for drying and it was a they were mounds
like this high just sitting right out in
the open what they look like this is
look like pot no because it's not a
plant you know it's just basically it's
a chemical that's sprayed onto plant
matter like dried sage and stuff like
that really so they try to make it look
like pot and you know you can smoke that
stuff out of a pipe or even roll it into
a joint but it if you look closely
though it's very clearly not pod Wow
and so they're drying this stuff that's
what I think that I'm you know they also
had like drying machines it looked like
Matador didn't like it when I use this
term but you know when you go into
subway and there's the bread baking
machines right there yeah it looked
exactly like that why did he not like
that term of though I don't know I think
he thought subway would sue us or
something but but they had those and
then they had like big buckets of
one-pound bags of these these
cannabinoids and these fentanyl analogs
just ready for shipping he said they
were sending them to Russia to Belgium
to the Netherlands and then I think a
lot of times that's repackaged there and
so I don't know if you knew that the
cannabinoids like used to be sold
legally in head shops like 10 years ago
yeah yeah and they would always be in
these colorful packets they almost look
like a pop rocks bracket they say like
spice spice and laugh-out-loud and stuff
and so I think in Europe that's where
they do that they put it in this
colorful packaging they and then they
ship it to the US and but yeah he was
saying that like he kept like really
close track of the law and all these
countries especially China like they're
scheduling this next week so
we're gonna take all this and throw it
away and I thought at first he was like
probably just putting me on but I think
they actually do that like these guys
are businessmen first and they want to
make money and going to follow the law
it just doesn't you know it's not I can
do sir this is where bath salt came from
right exactly yeah bath salts tend to be
Kathryn owns so synthetic cathinones
there have you heard of the cat plant
Kait yes the the hijackers pirates in
Somali yeah yeah it's really popular in
the Middle East it's like it's a
stimulant against you really have you
tried it no I never have yeah but I grew
up in Minnesota though and there's a big
Somali population and so a lot of there
was a big controversy in Minnesota
whether or not to ban cat leaves from
being sold in regular stores is it legal
I think it is I think it's not legal in
the US now if I'm not but I don't know
for sure interesting but so kh8 ease up
yeah exactly
and so the synthetic cathinone czar the
synthetic version of that like made in
the lab but they're there you know
there's tons of different kinds you
don't know how strong it is and the bath
salts they of course it has nothing to
do with like salts for your bath you
know this was a misnomer and they also
wrote called them like incense and
sometimes plant food and on the back of
all of them it would say not intended
for human consumption so that was like
the way they got around they thought
they could get around the federal analog
Act because part of the law says that
something is automatically illegal if
it's intended for human consumption
hmm so these guys just put in your bath
yeah he bath smells like fucking toxic
chemicals yeah do you remember when the
homeless guy ate someone's face remember
that and they said he was on base yeah
but that was actually disproven there
was none found in his system yes crazy
cannibal the Cosway cannibal I think
that yeah yeah and he was just crazy
right I think he may have liked smoke
some weed but yeah I don't think he had
anything else in his system it was just
high on life yeah
man the Lord you know geranyl Florida
man yeah it is it's funny that one state
is so synonymous with fuckery yeah
and they also had this thing called
Flocka have you heard of that yes I have
but I don't remember what it is it's
more Kathleen owns and like if you look
it up on YouTube there's all these
people going crazy I killed like I think
maybe a hundred people in Florida during
a time and the problem is you know like
the prohibition on drugs causes people
to do really stupid things right so you
have this cathinone like Flocka and as
bad as that was once they banned Flocka
the chemists started manipulating the
chemical structure so they change one
little thing they add like a chlorine
group for example so like a chlorine
like molecule you know it has nothing to
do with the drug but they just add it on
there to make it so it becomes legal hmm
but then it becomes more difficult for
your body to like digest it so it
becomes worse for you and the high
becomes worse and then they ban that and
then they make something new that's even
worse for you and it's just like down
the line and and these Chinese so so
that's what all these new drugs have in
common my book is about
they're called NPS novel psychoactive
substances so fentanyl is the most
famous and the most dangerous but these
include basically like synthetic new
versions of every drug so there's you
know marijuana the new the NPS version
is the synthetic cannabinoids heroin NPS
version is fentanyl there's LSD so you
take LSD it's like a wonder drug
right no one has ever died of an LSD
overdose you know people may have
thought they were a bird or whatever and
jumped off a roof but no one has ever
overdosed on the drug itself but but
once they started banning once they
started really cracking down on LSD
these Chinese chemists started
manufacturing this new type of
psychedelic that was sold as acid and so
if you went on the dark web this was
like in the like ten years ago or so tip
five ten years ago
you would search for acid and it you
would think you were buying LSD but you
were buying this new psychedelic that
could kill you and did kill you
these drugs are called n-bombs it's like
the worst name of all time these these
n-bomb drugs and they started killing
people and like the suburbs and dallas
and really were a music editor yeah so
so these kids all thought they just
wanted they did their research these
were like smart kids who said oh LSD has
never killed anyone
let's get that this new thing and it
killed them and so it wasn't really LSD
it was just so it totally no no no
really yeah now the crazy thing is that
this probably could be fixed with
legalizing all drugs but nobody wants to
legalize all drugs it's such a catch-22
because like if you had heroin available
at the corner store you would have no
need to buy fentanyl and if it was like
at a reasonable price where they
couldn't undercut you like hey heroines
five bucks I'll sell it for a dollar
yeah it's it's a terrible thing to even
say I don't want people to be able to
just go buy meth yeah well the way to
think about it I think is like
decriminalization a lot of times is like
a better alternative in my opinion in my
you know my research and then
legalization right so like the
presidential candidate Andrew yang talks
about decriminalizing Oprah opioids
right and so when I first heard about
that I was like what I was like that is
a bridge too far but the more you think
about it it's like people get arrested
for using fentanyl they go to jail and
then the recidivism rate is like through
the roof people like get out and they
start using again they don't get the
treatment they need you know and so the
opiate you know like people don't
realize that fentanyl is killing more
people than any drug in American history
ever on an annual basis
more than heroin more than pills more
than math more than crack
and so things just get worse and worse
every year people aren't talking about
it that much but how is
decriminalization going to stop that
because decriminalization will just make
fentanyl more available the point of
legalizing all drugs and again this is a
very very messy subject and I'm not a
proponent of legalizing all drugs I'm
sort of agnostic on and I'm like hmm I
don't know
I don't know what the fuck is it what is
the answer but if you legalize them and
you can buy them from reputable sources
you would know that you're actually
buying cocaine you're not you're not
buying some fake Chinese spice Jamyang
whatever the fuck they call it you're
buying actual cocaine and you look we
know if you buy whiskey right you get a
thing on the label it tells you what
proof it is you know that if you have
yeah you know three drinks you're going
to be fucked up and we can regulate that
we could sort of adjust like I had to
already I'm good you know but if you
don't know what's in it you don't know
what the dose is so you don't know what
you're ok with and what you're not okay
with one of the good things about
alcoholic you get a beer that's a beer
you know what that is yeah you know how
much alcohol is in there yeah well in
some countries in Europe they actually
give free heroin and these are addicted
users yeah and so that you know it's
often not the heroin that kills people
at all it's the dirty needles it's the
criminal lifestyle used to like pay for
the money to buy prostitution things
like that and so I went and visited
these places called supervised injection
facilities have you heard about these
yes yeah where were these where they
have them well they don't have any in
this country is this one in Philadelphia
yeah and there was a court case in its
favor recently the former governor ed
Rendell is like spearheading that but I
went to one in Barcelona and so these
are places where drug use is totally
legal inside the facility they have
clean needles they have doctors and
nurses supervise it and and they even
like so they have like this the smoking
room where you can go and do do anything
you want they
crack pipes like that the government
provides they're like government-funded
and created crack pipes that they'll
hand out to people and they've never had
an overdose death in one of these places
they they have they're connected to
treatment centers they give out
methadone suboxone all these treatment
drugs it brings people into the system
so that they're accounted for and these
have been like super successful but in
the u.s. there's like federal crackdowns
on them you know I again it's I think
there's an issue politically right
because nobody wants to be the one that
says hey we're gonna open up a place
where people can come and shootout yeah
and people like will fuck this guy my
sons hooked on heroin this piece of shit
wants to help him you know we what we
need is detox center so we need his
treatment we don't need a place where
you can go and shoot heroin you know but
like many things in life
this whole heroin thing fentanyl thing
all these different it's very messy yeah
well so even if you're not going to go
that far there are simple steps we can
take to help stop the opioid crisis and
one thing I'm a big advocate for is
called fentanyl testing strips and so
that's the weird thing about fentanyl is
it's not a demand driven drug like every
other drug it's out there because people
want it we want cocaine people want
heroin people don't want fentanyl
sneaking it into other things exactly
and so studies have shown that if users
know fentanyl is in their cocaine or
their math or their heroin or their
pills they will be much less likely to
use it and overdose up from it and so
fentanyl testing strips there they look
kind of like pregnancy tests they're
really cheap just these paper strips you
mix up your solution of whatever you
think you have heroin and you dip the
strip in there and if there's two
stripes that means that you have
fentanyl and if there's one it means you
don't or else the other way around
mm-hmm and so it's it's simple its
immediate but but again US laws are so
insane that these are actually banned in
certain states like Pennsylvania
so that could be done to help people
understand there's fentanyl on the drugs
that they're looking for they're looking
for cocaine they're looking for heroin
turns out this pencil in there what
other steps do you think can be taken to
sort of alleviate or at least some want
mitigate this awful crisis well of
course there's narcan and you know what
that is it's the like the miracle opioid
overdose reversal drug in nasal spray
usually and so if someone has overdosed
on opioids fentanyl heroin pills
whatever you know if you get these
sprays they will bring them back to life
literally right and so you know that
it's available in some places oh man I
am not smart enough to know that I do
not know that
narcan see if we could find out how
narcan works how does narcan work um
that's amazing though they figured out
something that can know from like where
else where what else is do we have that
in Pulp Fiction with the needle to the
heart remember that we would have seen
you know what I was asking someone about
that recently and that is total bullshit
that is like Quentin Tarantino just
making something up that big dramatic
scene was fucking awesome
yeah that's pretty crazy I mean if you
could shove off fucking needle in the
middle of your heart pump that stuff in
like oh and she pops up to life with a
needle out of her chest yeah that's in
real life it would have been a nasal
spray to the nose yeah but this is 1994
they didn't have they did and so
nowadays it's like firefighters
librarians these are the people who are
encountering opioid overdose victims
they're encountering them in the library
in the lab to collaborate to do drugs or
firefighters or EMTs react to people
that are overdosing right yeah and isn't
it the case that some fentanyl overdoses
the the people actually have it on their
skin so these people that are helping
them with the police officers or see
another thing that's kind of a
snopes.com thing they started that ya
know that's you can't get it from you
can't get an overdose by touching
fentanyl it won't go into your skin if
someone like
there was a you know a mound of fentanyl
someone sneezed and it was in the air
you could get it by breathing in but by
just touching it now oh well that's good
to know
narcan reversing an overdose it says
nrcon has a strong affinity to the
opiate receptors a stronger affinity to
the opiate receptors than opiates
opioids like heroin or percocet so it
knocks the opioids off the receptors for
a short time this allows the person to
breathe again it reverses the overdose
holy shit man that person needs a Nobel
Prize never they need the exact opposite
as the guy who sold the drugs to Prince
yeah yeah exactly you know they need
love and respect yeah that's an amazing
discovery so that's good to know because
we've actually I think we probably
repeated that someone told me that did I
ever repeat that on the show that people
have to work drugs or gloves when
they're handling people with drug
overdoses have you ever heard of car
fentanyl
what is that it's a hundred times
stronger than fentanyl it's analog
reaches uses like an elephant
tranquilizer and in one of the Jurassic
Park movies that's what they use to
tranquilize the dinosaurs oh yeah that's
right and so I I interviewed a bunch of
dark web dealers for the book I even
actually like met one in person what'd
he look like
well he asked me not to say buddy we
don't have this look he was like a buff
dude he was like he very much too much
we're gonna find him now like when you
were recording like Oh what is that
orange VAT of you know did you do that
kind of same shit when you're talking to
him no no because he knew I was a
journalist I told him I was and he
wanted to say yeah he just he's like
people think of us as scum but I want to
tell my story and that's that's what
journalists like live right what is his
story well he was a he's probably
listening to this man hey bro that's
crazy
he was a drug dealer total family man
with his daughter he was like feeding
her french fries and stuff but he had he
was addicted to
at one point he had a lot of sort of
depression self-esteem issues but then
he tried the opioids and he said it was
like an antidepressant it you know so
became hooked and so he started selling
fentanyl on the dark web because it he
didn't want his kids to have to live in
poverty he didn't wanna his his drug
addiction to interfere and so not only
that but he he claims that he's helping
addicted users more affordably maintain
their habits so he is this big like fuck
you know Purdue Pharma anti-government
anti-big pharma mentality so he blames
like Purdue Pharma made oxycontin pills
and God that's how the whole opioid
epidemic began so it was first it was
the pills
then people switched to heroin and now
it's fentanyl is in all the heroin mm-hm
and so this guy says that because he
makes a nasal spray to and he says that
people can buy his fentanyl nasal spray
on the dark web for like 60 bucks take
one spray it's equivalent to one
oxycontin pill and that's enough to
maintain their addiction and so he says
you know instead of paying money to the
big pharmaceutical companies people buy
this it's much cheaper and so he had a
whole moral justification of how he did
it so he's an ethical drug pusher that's
that was his case the problem is that
this stuff fentanyl is so potent and and
to make it into a nasal spray you have
to use this whole thing it's called
volumetric dosing when in the water and
you gotta get the exact right
proportions and he's not a trained
pharmacist you know buying it he's a
middleman no no no he does it he may he
has a whole process how he does yeah but
he's not a trained pharmacist he doesn't
you know no he's doing it right yeah it
wasn't so I told him that I said that to
him and he's like well basically I
tested on myself so if I'm doing it
wrong I would die so my customers
therefore know I've tried it so that guy
sounds like he's got a great pitch
but I'm not sure yeah I mean you got to
justify yeah I get it but so many people
who sell drugs and so many people who
were involved in drugs there are always
the people have fucked up lives like to
paint the best version of what they're
doing yeah that's what that sounds like
yeah I mean I feel like if you're
selling fentanyl someone's probably died
because of what you sold them I mean
it's just it's one of those things where
it's so deadly I mean what are the
numbers in terms of annual deaths from
fentanyl in the United States well it's
up over 30,000 a year and that's touch
more than think about that's more than
the peak of the AIDS crisis think about
that while people are trying to ban
flavored vapes which is fucking
preposterous you know it's it's
terrifying 30,000 people god damn that
is so many that's a lot of people and
there's many many many many people
listening to this that know someone
who's been affected by this that's the
horrific thing is that it's and it's
sort of snuck up on us where it's this
is not a big thing in the news you don't
hear about fentanyl deaths in the news
he would think that if there was like
kool-aid kool-aid was killing 30,000
people a year holy shit if kool-aid was
killing two people yeah yeah yeah but
the fact that this fentanyl stuff and
it's all happening because it's illegal
it's all happening in this sort of weird
gray area it's you know a lot of people
in the margins it's I want to hear the
presidential candidates talking about it
yeah like there's so little at the
Democrat debate they were asked like
what would you do about the fentanyl
crisis the opioid crisis and they all
said basically we got a sue the
pharmaceutical companies mm-hmm like
Purdue Pharma now I have sympathy for
that argument I mean Purdue Pharma and
places like Mallinckrodt pharmaceuticals
no one started that they're from st.
Louis where I'm from they actually made
a ton more pills they made like twenty
nine billion pills a year opioid pills
at the height of the opioid crisis
so these company and they made jokes
about it there are these emails that
were found that people were like it's
almost like people are addicted to these
pills you know like it's just like
Doritos if you keep eating them will
make more dude joking around they're
making jokes about that while people
were dying while people are dying so so
I have total sympathy that these we
should sue these companies just like the
big tobacco lawsuits in the 90s the
money will go towards care treatment all
that but that does nothing to stop the
fentanyl crisis the pill deaths are
already starting to drop which is great
heroin deaths are starting to drop which
is great but fentanyl deaths are still
rising and besides you know this guy
Andrew yang who I said the candidate
with he talks he has a lot of good
solutions you know Elizabeth Warren has
some some good some good ideas in her
proposal wants to put more money but for
the most part like these should be the
Democrats people you know what I mean
people on the margins but they're like
barely talking about it I think it's one
of those things where just being
president right being president as an
impossible job there's no way one person
can really control every single aspect
of our civilization it's just not
possible
and I think that's the same thing about
running for president no person running
for president really can address every
single issue that this nation is dealing
with so they stick with the big ones
like jobs and you know inequality and
all the things that are just gonna get
people to push the button yeah when they
get into the booth I mean that's all
they're doing this is just I hope you
like me sort of pitch yeah I mean you
know it's killing more people than car
accidents more than guns even do you
know that those more people than guns
make sense I mean but what kills me is I
just don't see a logical first step
where someone can do something about me
other than legalization of drugs and
this is this is also the step I'm sure
you've probably heard what happened in
northern Mexico yesterday yesterday no
it was a not without Sun no nose a new
one a family a woman and her children
were gunned down a Mormon woman they you
know they have these Mormon compounds in
northern Mexico and ten people were
murdered which women and children by
cartel oh really and just gunned him
down they then more people injured ten
people a little little kid little girl
was shot in the back and she's in a
hospital it's like they just gunned
these people down and this is all just
this inhuman violence from the cartels
and the cartels that have grown rose to
power and prominence because the fact
that there's an illegal drug trade so
there's money to be made so instead of
that money being made by pharmaceutical
companies that money's being made by
these ruthless murders cartels and this
is this is exactly what happened during
prohibition in the United States when
they've made alcohol illegal in the
1920s was the 30s was it
twenty-something was a twenty twenties
yeah when they made alcohol illegal it
didn't stop people from drinking it just
made people sell it illegally yeah and
so organized crime rose and then Al
Capone and all these different organized
crime members they made insane amounts
of money and developed insane amounts of
power and we're seeing the exact same
thing happening in Mexico and again it's
an alcohol as simple right yeah make it
legal we're adults it's not this the
pills are not simple right it's a scary
yeah it's the you know the the war on
drugs stuff it it's it's increasingly
going to be turned towards China you
know and in fact Trump has been meeting
with the Chinese President and all the
trade war stuff the increasing the
tariffs this is now tied into fentanyl
and so supposedly in a couple days this
might be out by then but there's this
announcement of a new partnership China
says they're finally going to crack down
on these drug labs hmm and we'll see if
it happens but the point is like we can
do everything we want to try to you know
we can go to war with China over this
issue
but you know what is our past record in
this realm like the DEA helped kill
Pablo Escobar right but since then
there's more cocaine coming out of
Colombia than there ever was before you
know nowadays El Chapo was arrested
tried that's doing nothing to stop the
drugs the cartels the drugs coming into
the US and and and there's every
indication that if we do get China to
stop this insane like 90 percent or more
of the illicit fentanyl comes from China
that if we do get them to crack down on
it the industry is going to go to India
and India is already starting to see
these huge busts like there's these
Mexican cartel members getting busted in
India for buying fentanyl in India yeah
the thing is like China and India have
the the two biggest chemical industries
when it comes to generics kind of low
lower level chemicals and
pharmaceuticals the US has the most
profitable pharmaceutical industry
because we make like the brand-name
drugs things like that but when you're
talking about generics and stuff like
vitamin C acetaminophen which is the
drug in Tylenol these are all made in
China place like India and so they have
this huge kind of brain trust of
chemists you know people go to
university they they learn how to be
chemist and then a certain amount of
them get into the illicit industry right
so Mexico doesn't have that Mexico
doesn't have its own chemical industry
and a bunch of scientists who can make
fentanyl who can make these new drugs so
so that makes India so susceptible to it
and and the biggest problem is actually
not even the fentanyl itself it's the
fentanyl precursors and you know what
those are you know the technicals will
be used to make fentanyl exactly and so
that was sort of the main investigation
in my book like almost like a tea
pages of the book are dedicated to this
one company they're called yuan Chung
this Chinese company that makes more
fentanyl precursors than any company in
the world you know they they they're
legit and and not only that they sell
them to the Mexican cartels and they're
totally sanctioned not only sanctioned
by the Chinese government but they get
tax breaks from the Chinese government
they get subsidies they get their land
subsidized their staff training things
like that and that was sort of the most
jaw-dropping revelation that I had was
that the Chinese government is not only
failing to crack down but they're
encouraging this industry they're
encouraging the industry that's insane
so it's just the the idea is look it's
making a lot of money let's just keep
making money yeah it's um a lot of
people ask me if they think this is a
blatant conspiracy to try to like
inflict harm upon the US a subversive
form of warfare and so I think it didn't
start out that way I think that these
these benefits were given so that China
could increase its exports could grow
its economy particularly when it comes
to chemical exports so that's why these
tax credit stars they're called
value-added tax rebates and so what that
means is any chemical that you use to -
any ingredients you use to make a
chemical for exports you can write off
the cost of those of those ingredients
when you export it so basically it's
like a 16% tax rebate and so they
originally did that just to try to like
improve their economy improve their
exports but what's crazy to me now is
that last year in the middle of the
trade war this was at the height of when
you heard about the trade war every day
you know Trump was raising tariffs and
doing this and that right at the height
of that China increased the tax rebate
for fentanyl from 9%
to 10% so it was almost like seems like
a thumb in the eye right like for
fentanyl you know it's I don't know yeah
it definitely seems like a big fuck you
yeah yeah this is what's crazy about
this is that what you said before no one
running for president is talking about
it the the president has talked about it
briefly
you know it's but it's not I don't see
any movement I don't see any big steps
being taken I mean I don't know what big
movements could be taken I mean how do
you eradicate this stuff well have you
heard of medication assisted treatment
this is like what I was talking about
suboxone methadone and there are these
opioid blockers too so so there are all
these drugs for low levels you know low
level opioids so you take your daily
suboxone shot and you don't crave
fentanyl you don't crave heroin anymore
but but it can't just be the drugs you
know you see in TV shows or whatever
just this line of people and you know
they go back out on the street and then
they're you know get back to whatever
they were doing but medication assisted
treatment combines that with traditional
counseling and therapy because a lot of
times it's not just it's not just
chemical hooks you know what I mean it's
people's lives they have problems
they're like out of work they got
terrible family problems they have
trauma in their past and if you can
unwrap you know unravel those problems
really get to the heart of things people
can quit and they do it all the time
there's another method that is not
widely discussed but it's incredibly
effective and that's ibogaine I've heard
about that yeah well I know many people
that have kicked pills because of
ibogaine kicked booze kicked destructive
self-destructive habits because of it
and is it a root there's a plant from
Africa I believe it's from the iboga
print and I believe it's C if that's
from Africa I don't want to be wrong
about this
it's legal in Mexico
and a friend of my my friend aunt clay
went down to Mexico because he had an
issue with pills he hurt himself
Oh God on pills it's really really
fucking up his life went down there got
treatment was so stunned by it that he
started he opened up his own place down
there I try to help oh really
Wow what part of Mexico so I don't know
substance derived from the plant
yeah African shrub called tavern na PHA
is that right have enough a iboga which
is known for its psychedelic qualities
and used in african spiritual ceremonies
some claim it's something of a miracle
cure for opiate addiction with minimal
withdrawal symptoms there's something
that happens with ibogaine when you take
it that it does something to we rewire
the areas of the brain that respond to
opiates and that sort of are hardwired
for addiction it rewires them in a way
that they have a very low recidivism
rate mm-hmm very low
you know repeat addiction rate yeah like
psychedelic seems to be you know so much
potential there's this professor that I
write about his name is David Nichols
and he basically spent his whole career
studying psychedelics as a way to help
people beat cocaine addictions alcohol
addictions even fight things like PTSD
and it was actually found that MDMA
ecstasy is like this amazing drug for
PTSD yeah I've heard this the maps is in
the middle yeah exactly yeah yeah
they're doing these they're finally have
gotten clearance to do these studies and
in some cases just using MDMA one time
is enough in the term you used it like
rewires the brain it's like resetting
the harddrive yeah we're like turning
the computer off turning it back on
again
yes and I think it also changes the way
people think about drugs because these
are not escape drugs in the same sense
as heroin is or fentanyl is or cocaine
is these are drugs that sort of just
give you a refocused perspective
reality itself yeah and I don't need to
tell you about DMT you know yeah it's
another one it's the same but I mean
that's also ayahuasca is also very
successful for people to quit using the
quit smoking using it to quit alcohol
people that have real issues it sort of
gets to the heart
it lets you understand like hey we're
gonna take you on a little journey into
the mind and show you through
dimethyltryptamine show you what's
fucking with you right this is something
that you've sort of stored away in the
back of your brain right rotten and it's
you're you're always ignoring it but
it's always there so it flavors
everything you do right and psychedelics
one of the things that they do is they
shine a bright light on all of those
weird parts of the mind that we all have
we all have weird memories or weird
feelings or weird you know thoughts of
inadequacy or self hate whatever it is
that caused us to be self-destructive
and make poor choices and a lot of times
we're not even aware of it these these
things sort of fester in your
subconscious and DMT psilocybin a lot of
different psychedelic drugs which oddly
enough the most potent ones they mirror
normal human neural chemistry which DMT
is a part of normal human neural
chemistry it's produced right you heard
that yeah and and I've heard that like I
wasyou know ayahuasca is like 12 hours
or whatever experience yeah and I've
heard that DMT is basically the very
peak of that yeah like distilled down
yeah it's the way I described it as
mushrooms times a million plus aliens
they'd have like a profound like lasting
impact on you oh yeah yeah it changes
who you are I just chant you you you
were your pre that thing and then you
are now you know now you know that
there's a whole nother dimension to
understanding and to experience it's
just it's very very very different than
the normal static world that we all live
in yeah there's this guy called Sasha
Shogun who yeah you know so I got to go
to the farm where he designed all his
drugs and you know he dedicated his
whole career
- trying to you know discover new
psychedelics that could be used as
medicine and so he took like the the
chemical structure of mescaline was one
of his most often used they're called
the scaffolding effect so it's like
that's the chemical scaffolding and so
he would tweak little bits to try to
come up with new drugs sample tiny bit
himself if it did nothing took a little
more a little more a little more till it
till it had an effect and he invented
over a hundred new drugs he he was
working for Dow Chemical the people
invented Agent Orange at the start of
his career and he invented like
psychedelics while working there that
have like the Dow you know Dow is like
patent patented and so he invented this
drug that was known as STP is a
psychedelic it stood for serenity
tranquility and peace I think and so
this is like a hippie era drug and there
was the Hells Angels I actually got into
selling it and distributing it it was uh
it was this this crazy story but they
but the problem was the hell angel Hells
Angels got the dosage wrong so they gave
everybody way too much and there was
this big this big protest in Golden Gate
Park in San Francisco in San Francisco
it was called the human bein and they
were protesting the banning of LSD that
year it was in 1967 and so everybody
went to the Golden Gate Park took this
stuff this STP and there's really high
dosages and they all like la they all
like freaked out and ended up in the
hospital and so what's it made out of I
don't know it's it's it's some kind of
not related LSD as it's available now
I'm sure it is yeah in the dark web you
can you could get it yeah I don't know
it doesn't sound that great even in its
regular proper dose Sasha Shogun has
those books called P Cal and T Cal which
are basically cookbooks and know how to
make all his psychedelics and even he
like wasn't that crazy about this one
but but anyway after all these
people in Golden Gate Park started
freaking out and Dow Chemical realized
that it was their guy doing this they're
like alright alright that's enough shut
him down yeah
have you ever heard of Hamilton Morris
yeah yeah he's great he's so gentle
tunes yeah he's great I've seen him on
here yeah yeah he's the most
knowledgeable person that I know in
terms for sharing of these things and he
interviewed Sasha yeah yeah he takes a
scientific but yet a connoisseurs
approach to drugs I mean he's very
scientific about like though what's
happening yeah but yet he'll talk about
it like the way some oh yeah yeah fine
wine yeah he's talking about he took a
cannabinoid he's like it's my crown
chakra is feeling uh yeah his he's
hilarious when he's blitzed on that show
Hamilton's pharmacopoeia and you know
he's dead right yes yeah it's amazing
Earl Morris is such an amazing
documentarian yes yeah we did a podcast
we've done two but the first one we did
we got way too high we were you guys
talking about that yeah I mean we were
useless it's like a Hamilton Morris is
on the show that was the early days of
the podcast to the early days of the
podcast we often got way too huh yeah I
had to figure out how to dial it in yeah
that's the number one thing people ask
me what I said I was going on this show
they're looking at - show I would be so
useless and in part no information and
and plus it's like the opioid epidemic I
gotta like write my facts right well it
doesn't seem like appropriate time to
get fucked up yeah yeah what are you
trying to do with this book besides let
people know the history offense you know
do you feel like with education you you
can do some good because people will be
armed with facts and understanding and
they can make better choices yeah all
the above the government is of the US
government have been reaching out to me
that's great that's good to hear yeah
people want like this China stuff nobody
knew anything about what China was doing
and why and and so I'm you know like the
left and the right I sort of like like
this
which is a rare consensus because the
the right wing is really into like China
is fucking with us and the left wing is
really into this this idea of harm
reduction and that's my big sort of
talking point it's like the war on drug
stuff is I was compared to sex education
right I mean we can teach abstinence
believe that kids aren't going to have
sex stick our heads in the sand or we
can do understand kids are always going
to have sex because you're always gonna
take drugs let's try to help them do it
more safely right and so you know if
I've been in rooms where it was like
hardcore Law & Order Republicans and I
just try to like make my point like you
know we can keep doing things the way we
have we're failing miserably why not
give these other methods a chance mm-hmm
you know and a lot of times they have a
proven track record of success in places
like Europe like what are we waiting for
Brian yeah we have this Puritan ideal
you know this the the abstinence ideal
and then we apply that to drugs and I
just think it's so foolish it really is
and I and it it's also so politically
dangerous to say anything other than
that yeah I think it's you know the good
news is like the optimistic thing is
that that's slowly changing you know and
a lot of people say well during the
crack air it is a lot of racism people
say like during the crack era it was all
about like lock these people up you know
criminalize the users but now that it's
like the white politicians kids who are
dying from opioids now all the sudden
this is a this is a health problem and
this is something we need to address as
a disease you know and so that's there's
no doubt that that's true but at the
same time the positive is that like this
is spilling into other realms too so I
went to North Dakota this small town
Grand Forks where this 18 year old kid
overdosed and died on fentanyl and it
just shocked the town everyone freaked
out but it inspired all these new
reforms so now they have all these new
laws in North Dakota like things like
the good some
in law where if someone is with you and
they die from drugs you can call the
police and they won't arrest you you
know what I mean because that happens in
a lot of places still right if you know
they blame the person who were there
with and and they have things like they
can use Skype like a Skype type service
when they live in these small rural
towns to get a prescription from a
doctor or far away think they can use
these services and and what they told me
in Grand Forks is that this system is
it's spilling over to other even like
alcoholism now people are starting to
think of that as a disease and so I
think there is slow progress being made
well that's that's good to hear I mean
it just takes time right for people to
understand that this is this is a real
issue that's affecting everyone I think
you're right about the racism in terms
of like the attitude about crack versus
cocaine and that could clearly be
demonstrated by its sentencing ya know
people were sentenced the mandatory
minimums for crack crack use yeah I was
so much higher if when people got caught
with crack or selling crack I mean they
went to jail for a long fuckin time
whereas people got caught with cocaine
they didn't go to jail for as long and
the treatment there the the sentence is
much smaller and dr. Carhart you know
yeah yeah he's great he's great as well
I've had him on here and he was
explaining he's like look there is no
difference yeah it's like it is cocaine
like this is cocaine yeah you want to
break it down to the drug effect on the
body they are the same thing and yeah
one of them sends you away for a long
time one of them does yeah well for my
book about West Coast hip-hop called
original gangsters
I interviewed a freeway Ricky Ross is
here yes couple terms yeah so he
original Rick Ross the original Rick
Ross exactly and he his sort of the
innovation of their era was I was called
ready Rock and so before people would
people preferred to smoke cocaine even
before crack was invented freebase that
was very exact Richard Pryor got in
trouble with yeah yeah
so the innovation was to make it so you
didn't have to freebase it was ready to
smoke so they called it ready rock and
easy ease first record label they is
called his record label is called
ruthless but they were gonna call it
rock house records you know for that
reason and so he was uh he was a crack
dealer before he got in the music
industry yeah the rick ross story is the
real rick ross story I should say and
Rick Ross Freeway Ricky which is with
the east column was making millions and
millions of dollars did not have any
idea that he was involved in that whole
all of them conscious yeah it's just
incredible yeah they were using the
cocaine money to fund the the war with
the consciousness and in ystos yeah it's
yeah Rick Ross is uh I wrote about him
and so I ended up actually playing
tennis with him because I was a really
good tennis player yeah I heard he was a
I was a big high school tennis player
too so I was like let's do this and he's
you know he's got some years on me I
don't know how old the I think he's
maybe late 50s but he was he was holding
his own we played in like a South
Central a tennis court somewhere and he
he took some games off me that well his
story is incredible because they sent
him away on the three strikes rule for
life and then while he was in jail he
learned how to read learned how to
understand the law and he started like
literally taught himself to be a lawyer
and then realize like no the way they
used the law was incorrect and unlawful
they the three-strikes means you get
arrested for larceny
you get out you get arrested for larceny
you get out you get a last rest they did
it in one swoop so they gave him two
charges at the same time and put him in
for three strikes and he was able to
successfully prove that that was wrong
that's why he's out right now
Wow he he's so smart one of the things
he taught me that you know you guys hear
about crack babies all the time and he's
like cover of Newsweek babies he was
like you know crack babies aren't real
that's not a real thing
he said that his I believe I hope I'm
not speaking out of school I think like
his wife
like maybe smoked crack while his son
was in utero never had any problems and
he's like yeah look around do do your
research click crack babies is not a
real thing that's crazy because I
remember hearing that as well at crack
babies were the thing we're all worried
about in the 80s oh my god wait till the
year 2000 all these crack babies are 20
years old yeah I know yeah
where are they now maybe they're mumble
wrappers because you understand real rap
music definitely that's who I am yeah
let's
generation nas huge nas fan Gang Starr
love Gang Starr of course biggie Tupac
you know the the classics you know I
mean Big Daddy Kane I love EPMD yeah you
know god there's so many this it's just
that era it was like I mean there's a
couple errors and that I just listed but
it is lyrical like nas is my favorite I
think
yes his lyrics they're so intricate you
know he's he the way he words things you
just go oh shit you know yeah I hear his
lyrics you just go oh like the king of
he's like the oh shit came yeah for
lyrics man he's the best what was the
was it rewind what was the one where he
played the whole song backwards oh yeah
talking about the bullet going back into
the gun all the way through the entire
story he starts at the end and then
backs up the story maybe he had some
fucking classics I think he's the best
writer in all of hip-hop yeah well you
know it's just his beats don't always
hit me the right way but he's got so
many classics he's earned like the right
but but my big thing because I did live
in New York and I was an East Coast you
know like music snob and like Biggie's
clearly the best ever I got one for you
fine off you're real cool G rap oh yeah
he's the I mean he's the original he's
the best he's mine
undisputed underground guy like people
don't know yeah you list like some of
the Great's of all time
people don't say Kool G Rap can listen
to cock-blocking that is one of the best
fucking songs this day I'll go listen
that song and I'll make me laugh yeah
that was yeah I mean that that like 80s
New York stuff is so so much of it hill
streets so like so intellectual so
amazing wordplay yes but see when I came
to LA though everyone's like Tupac Tupac
Tupac and I was like I don't get it man
he's his flow is not that great you know
I just don't get it but but the more I
like listen to his lyrics the more I saw
he was more than just a rapper he was
like a cultural influence he was like a
political leader to a lot of people and
finally I'm like yes I get it he stood
for something and now like I just don't
hear Biggie the same way you know
because so many of his songs are about
you know partying and crime and stuff
and the bigger message of Tupac just
really won me over and then well I don't
think it's a competition but I know what
you're saying
I mean Tupac definitely had a different
vision but biggie you also have to
realize biggie was like how old when he
died oh yeah yeah yeah I mean Tupac was
25 I'm one of my favorite videos of
Biggie is biggy standing on a street
corner when he was like 16 17 years old
rapping you ever see that I think I have
with the lumberjack stuff yeah he's got
a fucking eye I think he might even have
a piece of paper in his hand
where's like reading the rap off where
he's got it like in case he fucks up but
his forget low was so good even as a
little kid there's a fucking kid man you
know he's like as good as any rapper
alive what can you find that can we play
that we'll get in trouble I'll play it
for you after yeah well after the
podcast we'll play it and his his breath
control and like that wait sometimes I
feel like you gotta be like yeah add
almost something amazing singer a rapper
well comedians to a lot of fat comedians
like Patrice O'Neal one of the greatest
of all time there was something about
his girth when he was on stage I was
like
our and the like this whole thing is big
amazing
yes what's that a small towel Oh might
be a towel oh yeah you're right yeah and
just murdering it murdering it around
them now look at everybody you know I
saw this early Tupac videos and heard
early Tupac recordings and his original
style influence was actually Fresh
Prince of bel-air yes sir humph yeah did
you honor yeah yeah well he was like in
the background of the humpty-hump dance
yeah yeah you can see ya know Tupac was
a dancer I mean and when he was young
which is really interesting when they
interview him he was like he wasn't
thugged-out
at all like well he's the son of two
Black Panther as you know the politics
was always his thing what is that from
oh yeah solo debut Wow yeah Digital
Underground whatever happened to them
Humpty Humpty I'm shocked gee he's yeah
he's still around he's they were so good
they had great shit when you write a
song that's as profitable as the Humpty
dance I would imagine that kind of like
saps your need to do too much else when
you're that set but no he has though
he's he's the real deal
there was a lot of great hip-hop in that
era I mean I'm sure there's a lot of
great hip-hop now but to me it's like
it's almost like like I'm a classic rock
fan as well like if I'm sitting there
and I'm about to go for a drive and I'm
like what do I listen to nine times out
of ten I'll go to lynyrd skynyrd
Zeppelin or the doors or you know the
Allman Brothers Patti love Tom Petty I
just go to those classics for whatever
reason since there's so much music I
know there's great stuff out now I still
listen to some great stuff now I love
the Black Keys I love them they're still
putting out killer shit
but Empire weekend album is amazing I
don't know if you've heard that what's
that
Vampire Weekend they're from New York
it's a it's a band there they're the
lead singer Ezra Koenig is with
what's-her-name Jones from Parks and
Recreation this ashita Jones new band
they're not that new but I'm are weekend
fucking amazing Lana Lana Del Rey of
them this is great shit out there
there's no doubt but it's just it's
almost like there's too much there's
like but that's it's great about music I
mean it's an untapped like it's a well
that never runs dry and that's what I
always go back to it
well it's interesting to me to that much
of I mean I it's it's weird when we talk
about drugs because drugs seem like a
blanket expression that you can throw
over things that are good and bad things
that are productive like caffeine and
things that are terrible like math
mmm-hmm but there's a lot of music that
you would say is like oh well what the
fuck happened between 1960 and 1970
because something happened ya know the
music of 1960 and then you go to the
music of 1970 you go to the music of
2009 in 2019 they're fuckin the same man
it's like there's great stuff there's a
lot of variety but there's no like what
the fuck happened but from 1960 to 1969
what the fuck happened something happen
in that that's something's drugs
that's jut your you know it's like the
whole societal shift went right around
right along with it they kind of fueled
each other the the psychedelics
absolutely I guess that dirt weed they
were smoking probably affected him too
while they smoked so much of it it
became effective but you know I talked
to some people they said there was
always some good weed back then you know
they'd call it Acapulco gold or whatever
but there was no botanist some fucking
scientists that are working on like some
of the way I have today which 40-plus
percent THC mind-numbing
you know I can't feel your feet you know
that kind of stuff like I don't think
they had any of that Keef it was just
like I just came back to LA for the
first time recently went into a legal
weed store for the first time I didn't
buy anything but
but they're like the dosages are so high
yes you know all of them like why
there's got to be a connoisseurs market
for like micro dosing of weed like
where's that what would you want to get
is those CBD THC tablets I heard their
capsules and it's 10 milligrams
10 milligrams THC 10 milligrams CBD and
it's so nice it's just a nice calm
mellow high like you just like
appreciate things a little bit more the
colors are a little bit of eye bright
but you can just walk around and talk to
people you don't you know like fuck I
gotta go home and get out of their
coverage stop you know and but the thing
is there's so many like hardcore stoners
today that they need those high doses
cuz their tolerance is so high and
they're just trying to melt their face
off like every time they go in there
they're trying to find some new thing
that melts their face off harder I just
like I don't know man
psychedelics like LSD you know I'm like
going in the other direction really like
we went vegan you know like not smoking
weed really not like drinkin much it's
just like exercising eating like the
best food I don't know I'm just like
trying out this new thing just I just
want to feel good all the time you know
what I mean
so just experimenting and we my wife
actually got us into like Whole Foods
plant-based so it's not you know like
you can eat crappy vegan food obviously
Nikki Glaser talking about this you know
people talk about fake meat and like the
impossible whopper and I had one yeah
but it's like it just makes you feel
crappy like old whopper did yeah so like
if you cut out the product the processed
food right that to me is what is making
me feel like I have energy all the time
yes sleep better how thick do you ma'am
and that's where it's at you know be be
kind to your body your body will treat
you better that's just how it is drink
more water exercise when you can do you
meditate at all
yeah yeah I've been I've been getting
that yeah yes you Nikki talking about
that yeah I mean I feel like all these
things that were saying all these the
moves towards positive lifestyle choices
will and also in some way sort of negate
this move towards these drugs and this
this that the
Vaness of these drugs if people are
drawn towards being healthier and
happier and cleaner and keep your mind
right you'll be less likely to want to
seek this sort of that opiate just
escape yeah it's it's a hundred percent
it's like Johann Hari in his book he's
been out here chasing The Scream yeah he
like blew my mind with something with
these revelations that really it's just
like people can age out of these drugs
you know I always thought like when
you're addicted to heroin or fentanyl
it's like for life you're never getting
free but when people get their stuff
together they just age out of it and
then they they don't even have to try so
I agree with what you're saying I think
the attractiveness of living a happy
healthy life is contagious it's very
addicting and that people addicting in
the right way addictive in the positive
way you see someone living a good
healthy life and being happy and be nice
to people and smiling or laughing a lot
and having your life go well were you
making a good living and you're you're
being productive and creative and all
those good positive things those are
attractive to other folks and yeah if
they see that and they go oh is it do I
want to be like Mike over there who's
doing well or Cindy who's doing well or
do I want to be like those poor fools
that are under the bridge that are
living in tents because yeah they have
drug addicts their drug problems
yeah it's I've had kind of a debate with
my wife because she you know all these
drugs like no locks no lock zone and
methadone these are opioids too you know
so some people criticize it and they say
well you're just advocating for someone
to go off one drug onto another drug and
my wife in particular is like you know
should really be encouraging people to
go off these drugs all together and like
you know whether it's a spiritual
approach meditation all that you know
and she's she's not wrong but it's just
like what do the numbers show what are
people capable of doing you know it's I
don't have all the answers I don't have
the answers for everyone my friend Artie
Lange just I just did a podcast with him
yeah I heard about that and
he's free and clean for nine months now
I've never seen him look better his eyes
they're there they're sparkling like
he's that's made resin and he's talking
and he detailed like all the various
ways that he tried to get off and all
the different things that he did and
nothing worked
other than this last time he just he
kind of hit that rock bottom thing and
had slowly but surely worked his way out
of being addicted into this place of
sobriety and then two days led to 20
days led to three months led to where we
are now and you know he's is so happy
and you know he's still getting his piss
tested like five times a week
I mean he's under it's crazy because
he's under this program where if he
fucks up he goes to jail I think he goes
jail for a long time he's not a dealer
and he didn't do any violent crime or
anything like that is just a user it's
really strange that they've got him on
this this drug court thing but what it's
doing for him is it's forcing him to be
accountable and forcing him to be sober
and then he's doing that then and then
he's saying look I like this I'm gonna
die I can I'm happy I'm alive I'm doing
great I'm doing shows I'm I feel good as
fucking stories were insane he's so
funny he was so far sold much more like
vibrant than I've ever seen him before
and it was so I love when I see people
doing well I love it I love what someone
was there their life was fucked up and
now it's not fucked up at all like he's
doing great on the right path and the
more people see things like that I think
the better is for all of us I think some
people it's like part of their identity
to be like that guy who's like drunk yes
you know in like the life of the party
yes and even like there's so much like
I'm no you know I'm not like a
teetotaler but there's so much part of
the culture is drinking you know what I
mean and it's there's so many like I'm
drinking beer for breakfast like this is
amazing and people get caught up in that
and it doesn't agree drinking is not for
everybody right you know but they that
it becomes part of their identity and so
we my wife and I do this thing called
Kundalini Yoga
man my son already just didn't goes old
got my high yeah it does I heard someone
else describe it as like totally for
drug people who like a guy address
because you get that buzz in your head
it's like half meditation half yoga and
I'm like the world's least flexible
person so it's not like hard yoga but
it's just that you have to it's mind
over matter stuff and so you do things
like you know we had to do this one
where you put your arms above your head
and hold it in this position and do this
mantra for like 11 minutes and you're
constantly correcting your posture
you're trying to like you know look in
your third eye and your brain doesn't
have time to wander around and think
those negative thoughts and how terrible
you are right and at the same time it's
like a physically demanding thing to do
I mean it doesn't look like much but
you're like sweating and you know my
wife like God got us into that there's
so many recovery stories because I
really think it's it's it's like people
think it's a chemical thing but it's
like a mind thing these are often yes
and I think that the ability to silence
all the internal chatter that you're
just discussing like that thing like you
think about being a terrible person or
you hate yourself or that is so common
with people and so many people just live
with those those thoughts bouncing
around their head and they don't have an
outlet and that's another reason why
they turn to alcohol or turn to drugs
they try to like squash that chatter but
when you force that's one of the things
that I really love about yoga is no
matter what's going on in my life it's
business stuff personal stuff creative
stuff whatever it is it's bothering me I
can do yoga and the difficulty of those
poses makes me concentrate almost
entirely on them and I take a concerted
effort to just think about my breathing
and like meditation you'll go off track
and you start thinking about things all
gonna pay that bill or go do this thing
or I gotta make sure I call that guy and
but you can get right back on track if
you just always concentrate on your
breathing
always concentrate on the pose
concentrate on your breathing
concentrating the pose and just know
that you're gonna get off-track a couple
times three thing but enough you'll stay
on track enough so that there is some
sort of cleansing effect and when class
is over I feel better I just feel good
okay yogi I do hot yoga chameleons yeah
yeah there's a funny book about that the
guy who started that I was like yeah
that's the fucked-up part about the
place that I go to they actually changed
the name called Bikram and this guy's
too fucking radioactive and they teach
the same postures which he didn't even
invent by the way and these are fucking
thousands of years old these pressures
and the sequence he didn't even invent
he just someone authorized yeah he
popularized it and look as gross as that
guy is he's done a huge service by
spreading his yoga across the country
and it's it's like many things in life
things are messy you know like life is a
messy proposition and this guy you could
say well fuck yoga cuz that guy's Yoga
Yoga is a physical practice done by
millions and millions not billions of
people it's the same with the liter of
Kundalini this guy named yogi bhajan and
he he's gross too he oh there's lawsuits
against him since he died and stuff like
I think any like cult people call it a
cult like they wear white there's but he
came from the punjab region in India and
the the Kundalini Yoga was like only for
the Brahmins or only for the like elite
class and so what he did was he came to
the US and he brought it for like the
common people and so there were people
apparently who were so upset about this
back from India that there were attempts
on his life I heard that he you know he
wore the where's the big what do you
call that holds your hair even the big
turban yeah that's bulletproof no but
someone came in with a sword and he had
a comb stuck in there and it was like I
think a metal comb and that was the only
thing that saved his life from this
sword attack from the back that sounds
like a great story
this sword bounced off my comb and I am
here to teach yoga yeah this happened
something happens when people become
like a leader of something that
especially something that's so
spiritually oriented and also sexual
there's something about yoga class
everybody's in their underwear everybody
sweaty and you're all like sort of
releasing and it's like it's very sexual
in a lot of ways that's why people think
yoga teachers like the hottest teachers
like if like a girls like a yoga teacher
your friend goes dude I'm dating a yoga
teacher yeah my wife's taking a teacher
training so that's amazing I think it's
just like they're literally you have
like an aura you know what I mean
something about it there's focused yeah
you know on making your being more
healthy and yes but then for men for
gross men problem is like like all these
women are like you you've probably such
amazing things another thing for you
well I mean every call I mean it's like
quit yeah such a stereotype like have a
cult but don't make it about seducing
the underage women in the cult don't you
make it the women I mean it's always
that's it always they always become sex
cults yeah exactly
always and don't like steal everyone's
money like just change the script a
little bit this time yeah I mean
everything from Waco to Jim Jones to all
if they wind up fucking everybody's wife
and take it all the money yeah exactly
what was that Netflix documentary that
plays some water yeah amazing yeah
amazed and again sex sex and money
it was all about sex that guy was
banging everybody it's like orgies yes
and there's fucking crazy but that's
always what happens it always becomes
some wacky sex cult always yeah always
yeah I mean that's the number one thing
that makes people distrustful of called
sex and money yeah things that people
want our life the most these are
probably other than love which is
probably the wisest way that's part of
it too like it's finding someone to care
about you that's why people join gangs
you know ice-t talks about that his own
parents never said they loved him but in
the gang they they were like I love you
right he wasn't in the Crips but he did
like friends and yeah they took him in
yeah people want meaning you know they
want meaning in life and I
I agree with you what you said also
about a lot of times when people use
drugs or drink or whatever whatever it
is that's their vice they become a
prisoner to that thought like that this
is their identity this is Mike Mike's
the drunk
look at Mike getting fucked up fucked up
every night bro you know yeah and some
of the best advice I got is like is to
not be so worried about your identity
like think of it it was like a small eye
instead of a capital I like I think
about myself in certain ways you know
I'm like I'm like the guy who likes
hip-hop I'm the you know the guy who
does this or that and that's you know
but like do I need to be that guy like
if I don't listen to hip-hop I'll learn
about all this other music that I might
like even better right you know and so
the more you just strip that stuff away
the more you can get to the essence of
who you really are
yeah the more you just just enjoy things
and not wonder whether you should be
enjoying them or whether they fit your
package yeah someone not just someone
but many people have said this to me and
it's one of the grossest thing anybody
has ever said they go really love what
you're doing with your brand but the
fact that people people can see through
that stuff so easily if you were really
doing that oh fuck you they can but it's
also like the idea that yeah you are a
brand you're a brand hmm Ben Westhoff
you fuckin brand you yeah I wish what is
a brand a person's a brand love what
you're doing with your brand like yeah
so if you ever meet me don't say that
well I think you say it I think you
pride yourself on just saying what you
really think and I think that uh dad is
your Brad I mean as lame as that sounds
like not having a brand is like your
brand kind well fortunately I developed
fuck you money at a time where I like
during the fear factor days I got fuck
you money and I used it to say fuck you
and so like it used it correctly huh so
I just saw this is I am like I'm nice
I'm a good guy like but this is how I
think about things I'm not I'm not gonna
like the problem with Hollywood it's one
of the giant problems is that you're
always trying out for the next thing
you're always auditioning and that's a
people develop an incredibly
disingenuous mindset because the mindset
is I want to be manipulative to the
casting agents and the producers I want
them to like me so I want to adopt
whatever conglomeration of ideas they
have politically socially I want to fit
in so this is why Hollywood is almost
like universally left-wing it's not
because the people are all they all
think exactly the same way because
they're creative types and that would be
ideal right but that's not what it is
what it is is the people that run the
show know that this is how the shows run
the show's run through progressive
thought you vote Democrat you support
these candidates you want a woman
president you wanted this you wanted
that you've Pro everything that the left
stands for and so these people they
don't even have their own opinions they
just have these opinions they've adopted
because they think it's gonna help them
get through and so then they do get
through and then they become famous and
then they go who the fuck am I like they
don't know who they are they don't they
don't and then when it comes to like hey
tell us your opinion on this like oh my
god they don't even know what their
opinion is because they didn't have
never really developed opinions they've
developed an act and that act is say the
things that these people would like you
to say so that you can continue to work
so that you can get picked because if
there's two people that are up for a
role and one of them is like this
staunch libertarian who's like this pull
yourself up by your bootstraps thing
that you know doesn't believe in white
privilege and and the other one is like
super progressive I call myself a male
feminist I want a woman president like
that guy gets the roll yeah I mean
that's the ironic thing too though is
like a lot of you know like real
liberals see Hollywood as this like
reactionary place in its own right you
know what I mean like the the right wing
like Christian part of the culture sees
Hollywood is this horrible cesspool but
then the left-wing seiza is playing to
this you know the Weinsteins stuff all
the like worst elements of you know
male-dominated corporate culture
epitomized in Hollywood so it's it's
funny how its hated on by
yeah this is both sides but I think that
Weinstein stuff is the same thing as the
cult stuff it's just like you got a guy
gets power and he has a bunch of people
that have to like he he creates their
careers like you want to be in this
movie
dick and that's what he did I mean he
literally did the casting couch thing a
grand scale because well yeah it's it's
what happens to so many people where
they have that position where they're
they're taking people and they're hiring
them and then putting them in these
magical positions look at her she's on
the big screen she's a star I could have
been the star but I didn't have sex with
Harvey who and then this is this is
creates that culture and that guy just
just ran through that business with
impunity I mean he was just doing it
that way forever yeah I think I don't
like when you look at Hollywood movies
like what it is and what the formula
became I always wonder if this is if
this is like something that developed
organically or if it's like we're
hardwired to want to see this kind of
like take the three-act structure right
mm-hmm like every movie has ever 3x
structure right whether it's the most
independent or the biggest Hollywood so
it's like why is that is that part of
our brain you know and take songs like
pop songs they're all structured the
same first chorus verse bridge you know
course again and I don't know well you
read any Joseph Campbell yeah I haven't
read it but I know the basic ideas yeah
and Joseph Campbell did you know the
journey of the hero the hero's journey
all all that like mirrors itself like
that that's the structure of most of
these fantastic stories where this hero
goes through this transformation and
faces this adversary and overcomes it in
this story this sort of structure is
repeated over and over again it's it's
something that's like deeply embedded in
an in culture deeply embedded in the
psyche of human beings yeah well yeah
there you go
yeah there's the answer yeah and so so
when I'm trying to like write a book
like this I want
I want there be narrative and tell
stories you know what I mean like
there's there's drug books out there and
it gets way deep into the
neuropharmacology and you know but it's
like ultimately you know 30,000 people
dying of fentanyl is a horrifying
statistic but it's almost impossible to
wrap your mind around it when you know
one person who died like my friend
his name was Michael Schaeffer Meyer in
2010 he died from fentanyl patches I'd
never heard of fentanyl at the time
capatch killed a patch and he was
drinking at the same time but then what
actually literally killed him was and he
he was sleeping with his face in the
pillow anything like cut off you know it
just cut off his breathing oh he didn't
like have the strength to move oh my god
and so so that's why they think these
these number of deaths actually might be
undercounted because his death was
listed I believe is like cardiac arrest
or something so that doesn't even show
up as a fentanyl death for example and
so but just yeah just that one story
means so much more to me than 30,000
people I don't know for example you know
what I mean
yeah that's the problem what is that old
expression the death of one person is a
tragedy death of a million is a
statistic yeah I think that was some
think that was a Nazi that said that
wasn't it um
gurbles someone like that I forget who
it was someone terrible had that
expression but we eat and we don't
there's so many people that's also a
part of the problem like 3,000 people
die every year from aspirin 150 people
die every year because co-pilots fall on
their head oh no no I think Tylenol
actually has the narrowest like
therapeutic window it's not really a
single death is a tragedy a million
deaths it's statistic when one dies is a
tragedy when a million dies it's a
statistic yeah oh that's a little
redundant well you say twice so the
Russian people a lot of times I've tried
you know many people have successfully
killed themselves with Tylenol because
it's got such a narrow therapeutic
window like the amount that makes you
feel better versus the amount that will
kill you isn't
that far apart and it's the same with
fentanyl and that's why like I mean you
could drink too much water and kill
yourself right there was a woman who did
that on a radio show contest he's trying
to win like a game station like a xbox
or something for a kid it was like an I
believe it was in San Jose and they were
having a water-drinking contest and
there's also kids have done it they were
getting hazed for for fraternities yeah
and people you hear a lot about ecstasy
overdose deaths because people didn't
drink enough water so like MDMA isn't
usually what kills you it's like you
you're in the hot Sun at a rave you
overheat you drink you don't drink
enough water but actually some people
have heard that and then they drink too
much water
and that kills them at a rave how much
water kills you how much water do you
have to drink before I think probably
let's say you get done I think a gallon
an hour for five hours do you think
that'll kill you a gallon that is a ton
of water for one hour yeah you think
that'll kill you for five hours five
hours I have no idea I have yet I guess
no we're playing a game here I'm
guessing no I'm thinking three gallons
an hour for a nap for three hours you're
dead
you got the over/under on that what what
does it say Jamie is there a statistic
the Miller mote a little Miller Miller
that kid millimolar yeah that thing
that's like four I know he tells the
sodium level things blood level that
gets to your brain that's one can fuck
you up so I'm trying to find out oh so
it dilutes yeah dilutes your so what if
you drink water with a lot of salt in it
then your speedo could probably get
sodium Texas by the way that will give
you explosive diarrhea
trust me on that last year we were doing
the sober October fitness challenge
we're doing all's me and my yeah but
last year we went crazy we did we had a
fitness challenge this year we just went
sober and we did bunch of classes and
different things but last year we went
like five six hours of cardio a day
nutty shit and I was drinking literal
just giant 64 litres of water with epsom
salts or not epsom salts Himalayan salt
in it and if you don't get that mixture
right that stuff will come rocketing out
of your ass like a broken fire hydrant
it's crazy and then I googled it
afterwards I was like what is that and
then I googled that it's actually like a
salt enema by drinking a bunch of salt
for whatever reason I guess your body
just goes hey what is all this water and
salt this guy's sick something's wrong
here everybody out of the pool
and it just backfired on ya it just but
there you got to get it right it's just
you know only need like a teaspoon you
don't need like multiple tablespoons
yeah well I've been you know I ran a
marathon and I'm into long-distance
running and it's gotten to the point
where at first I was always doing it for
my health you know what I mean I was
like I'm getting next getting my workout
in get exercise but then I grew like
it's so much that it was like negatively
affecting my health you know like I ran
maybe ten miles with my buddy Jeff the
other day and I just felt that huffily
afterwards but I loved doing it you know
why did you feel awful
because you're when I was like grouchy
with my kids and yeah my level my you
know everything was depleted and I was
tired and hungry and yeah then the next
day I was sore but it's funny when you
cross that plane to just wanting to do
the thing itself yes well that's a high
as well I mean obviously aware the
endorphins that you get from running I
never really experienced that the way I
did during that sober October thing
because one of the things that me and my
friends talked about was how when you do
do cardio for like five six hours a day
you don't give a fuck like you like all
of your fucks are gone yeah he's like
things don't bother ya
like people can yell at you like oh hi
keep yelling yes doesn't mean anything I
can things don't bother you it's weird
like you're on some I don't give a fuck
drug and I was Talent we were all
talking about I was like if you could
take that drug how great would that drug
be because you don't you don't use any
cognitive function it's not like you're
high and you can't figure out what's
going on
oh you
the exact same person but you have zero
internal chatter and zero negative
thinking it's like it's gone it's like
yeah once the meditation is the closest
that I get to that yeah things bounce
off you you don't you know like judge
everything so carefully so harshly you
just like things come in you process it
you react in your own time you're not
letting your ego get in the way I think
there's a certain amount of physical
requirements that all of our bodies have
and most of those physical requirements
are not being met and then when you do
do something with that where is your
body out you know uh and then you
realize like oh a lot of that anxiety
was just this excess energy yeah that's
just this does this body which is
designed to be able to perform your body
is designed to be able to you know carry
groceries and you know run away from
animals or trying to get you all there
all these different things that your
body evolved to be able to do and then
most of what you do is sit in your car
or sit on the train sit in your chair at
the office and that's what a lot of
people do and because of that your
body's just like well they're yeah
exactly yeah I went to the Boundary
Waters you know the Boundary Waters
Canoe area in northern Minnesota know
what is this like this amazing chain of
lakes where there's no motorized boats
allowed there's no motors at all some
parts of it planes can't even fly over
it's all portaging so you take canoes
and then from Kadena to connect one leg
to another you have to carry your canoe
over your head and like maybe maybe a
quarter mile sometimes like a full mile
you've got your big pack side with a
canoe over your head well it's two
people carry the canoes that's why it is
long and it's like the most amazing
full-day workout we would get up at dawn
and like we'd be canoeing and portaging
all day and I had no idea my body could
handle it I get my like 30 minutes of
exercise in every other day and I'm like
I'm good but now we're exercising
hardcore like eight hours a day and my
body just loved it and by the end of it
it was like oh we have to go back to the
city life again and it's not looking
forward to it yeah if you get your body
used to that like I imagine if you you
worked on a ranch or something like that
you're throwing bales of hay every day
and doing chores and walking around your
body's just gonna become accustomed to
it your your body becomes accustomed to
the demands that you require of it but
most people just don't use their body
enough and there's a really
disappointing thing that we're really
intelligent people connect exercise with
being a superficial thing and there's
less of that now there was when I was
younger but that if you exercised and
you were into your appearance and you
were you know you were trying to look
good by working out and you were
somewhere another shallow yeah a meeting
we're concerned with books and like you
know like pursuits Yeah right but those
things are not mutually exclusive right
and if you're really smart you realize
that this is the only fucking body you
have yeah and if you're really smart you
realize that it's good to have a body
that's not disgusting yeah the whole
like I hope I die before I get old like
I don't agree with that like my kids is
like Sports is our bonding thing
it's like sports sports sports sports
all day long and I started to stop to
think about that for a little while I'm
like there's other things in life you
know what I mean what's the values that
I'm imparting on my kids for doing
sports but ultimately it's just like a
sense of exercise you know there's
there's some competition but it's like
it's not like they're crying if they
lose you know a healthy sense of that
and just this idea that you want to see
exercise and physical activity as your
friend because that's a lesson you're
going to use your whole life that is a
great lesson and I can to bring it back
to fentanyl and drugs and drugs of
escape the more you can emphasize the
more we all can emphasize healthy
choices with your life the less
attractive those escapes will be yeah
you know I think it is you know why do
people you know the sad thing is that
the opioid epidemic was so often started
by people who were prescribed
drugs from their doctors and so that's
another thing there's a sea change
happening right now
is that there's all these new
regulations about what doctors are
allowed to prescribe they're trying to
discourage them from taking Opie from
prescribing opioids and that's a
positive shift I think for people who
are new patients right it's like if you
get a root canal you don't need some
crazy strong opioid you know you know
it's like to recover like a from a
dental procedure or whatever but the
problem is that now they're starting to
take away people's opioids when they've
been on them for a long term like I
talked to this woman from Colorado and
she had a disease I can't remember
rheumatoid arthritis or something she'd
been taking opioids for for years and
years and years and now all the sudden
the doctor was like I can't give you
these anymore
you have to take these classes about
alternatives to opioids you know and
they talked about acupuncture and yoga
and stuff like I know that's great but
she felt like just degraded you know and
and and studies have shown that people
if they get their opioid pills taken
away they're gonna turn to Street heroin
as a result and so the whole the whole
thing is it's insanely complicated yeah
you talked about that that there's three
waves right the first wave is the pills
second wave is Street heroin and then
third wave is phenyl yeah exactly and so
so we're still facing the repercussions
from the first one and that's what all
these lawsuits that you hear about in
the news are all about and the the the
another scary thing is that up until now
people hadn't been asking for fentanyl
by name like we said it's just put in
other drugs but now in places like San
Francisco even st. Louis fentanyl is
starting to acquire a reputation as a
street drug because longtime heroin
addicts don't don't get high anymore
you know I mean they take heroin and it
just gets rid of their withdrawal
symptoms mmm and so fentanyl will get
them high again and so people are
starting to seek it out
it's a bummer I hate to end it like this
but I think it might be the best way
yeah thank you
thanks for being here tell everyone your
book fentanyl Inc it's available now oh
yeah absolutely it's uh yeah fencing a
link how rogue chemists are creating the
deadliest wave of the opioid epidemic
and thank you for having me I appreciate
it that was good talking to you I enjoy
it thank you bye everybody
much much wider ranging
[Applause]
[Music]